Technical Review: tshoot-packages.adoc (#737)
SUSE/doc-susemanager: modules/administration/pages/tshoot-taskomatic.adoc

[[troubleshooting-taskomatic]]
= Troubleshooting Taskomatic
////
PUT THIS COMMENT AT THE TOP OF TROUBLESHOOTING SECTIONS

Troubleshooting format:

One sentence each:
Cause: What created the problem?
Consequence: What does the user see when this happens?
Fix: What can the user do to fix this problem?
Result: What happens after the user has completed the fix?

If more detailed instructions are required, put them in a "Resolving" procedure:
.Procedure: Resolving Widget Wobbles
. First step
. Another step
. Last step
////

> If taskomatic crashes or has failed to terminate a process, it can cause problems with metadata generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Taskomatic crashes or has failed to terminate a process, repository metadata regeneration can be prevented from happening regularly.
```

> If Taskomatic crashes or has failed to terminate a process, repository metadata regeneration can be prevented from happening regularly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Taskomatic crashes repository metadata regeneration can be prevented from happening regularly. As repository metadata regeneration is a relatively intensive process, Taskomatic might also normally take several minutes before completing it.
```

When this occurs, package updates will be available in the {webui}, but will not appear on the client, and attempts to update the client will fail.

> To correct this, determine if any processes are running, or if a crash could have occurred.

Reviewer: I have no idea about what "processes are running" means here.

Can you find the original context from this text? Bug/mailing list message/TID... I can't really propose a better text.

Maybe @mcalmer you remember?

Author: So, I thought it came from the wiki, and upon searching, I found this: https://wiki.microfocus.com/index.php/SUSE_Manager/CLient_Server_package_inconsistency

Not sure if it's the original, but it's close.

> To correct this, determine if any processes are running, or if a crash could have occurred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To correct this, determine if Taskomatic is still in the process of generating repository metadata, or if a crash could have occurred.
```

> When you have located the problematic process, the metadata can be regenerated and synchronization occurs as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait for metadata regeneration to complete or restart Taskomatic after a crash in order for client updates to be carried out correctly.
```

.Procedure: Resolving Taskomatic Problems

> . On the server, check the [path]``/var/log/rhn/rhn_taskomatic_daemon.log`` file to determine if any processes are still running or a crash occurred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the server, check the [path]``/var/log/rhn/rhn_taskomatic_daemon.log`` file to determine if any metadata regeneration processes are still running or a crash occurred.
```

Reviewer: I think it would be good to add an example of how such logs look like:

Start of metadata regeneration looks like this:

```
<START DATE> <START TIME> [Thread-<NUMBER>] INFO  com.redhat.rhn.taskomatic.task.repomd.RepositoryWriter - Generating new repository metadata for channel '<CHANNEL>'(sha256) <PACKAGE COUNT> packages, <PATCH COUNT> errata
```

End looks like this:
```
<END DATE> <END TIME> [Thread-<NUMBER>] INFO  com.redhat.rhn.taskomatic.task.repomd.RepositoryWriter - Repository metadata generation for '<CHANNEL>' finished in <DURATION> seconds
```

Example:

```
2019-09-19 12:20:00,174 [Thread-584] INFO  com.redhat.rhn.taskomatic.task.repomd.RepositoryWriter - Generating new repository metadata for channel 'cloned-2018-q1-sles12-sp3-updates-x86_64'(sha256) 550 packages, 140 errata

...

2019-09-19 12:20:04,704 [Thread-584] INFO  com.redhat.rhn.taskomatic.task.repomd.RepositoryWriter - Repository metadata generation for 'cloned-2018-q1-sles12-sp3-updates-x86_64' finished in 4 seconds
```
